(upbeat music)
- [Instructor] So now it's time for my Solution
to the RESTful Web Service.
Let's start in our Web Service Controller.
So you'll see that I added three methods to this,
a GetMapping.
And I didn't talk about GetMapping before,
I only talked about Request Mapping.
Within Spring and some of the later versions of Spring Boot,
they introduced these stereotypes of GetMapping,
Post mapping, PutMapping, and Delete Mapping.
So you didn't have to put a method
in the Request Mapping annotation itself.
So essentially it's doing the same thing.
And I wanted to show that to you.
So I used the GetMapping at /guests,
and I simply returned in that service,
a list of hotel guests from the reservation service.
I did the same to add a guest,
doing a PostMapping at /guests.
I then have a response status have created,
because anytime you create an element in REST,
you should return it to a one instead of a 200.
Now, technically you should also populate
the location header,
which I did not do for this purposes,
but I could have.
It would have been as simple as returning the guests
from the add guest method,
getting that and then populating the location header
before I responded out.
But for this demo, this is fine.
I take the guest in, I simply call a reservationService,
addGuest method,
which then saves it to the underlying database.
And I did the same getRooms,
responding at /rooms,
and then returning the element from the reservation service.
So let's take a look at that.
We already had the get hotel guests
from a previous exercise.
So I simply added the addGuest here on 83.
You'll see that I validate
that the object comes in is actually populated.
If it's not, I throw a runtime exception,
which will turn itself into a 500.
If I really wanted to go all the way into this,
I would actually return a custom exception
that is mapped to a specific response code.
Again, for demo purposes,
just throwing a runtime exception is fine.
It gets us a 500 to tell us there's a problem.
I then simply take that guest element
and call the underlying Save.
You'll notice that this is a void method
because I'm not returning anything.
Again, if I wanted that location header,
this Save method will return the object that is just saved,
including its ID.
I could take that ID and populate the location header.
And then on getRooms here on line 90,
I did the same thing that I had done before on getGuests.
I simply get them all, converted into array list,
sort that, this time I'm sorting by room number,
and then return that list.
Now, one problem that you may have had
with the addGuest method,
actually is how we defined our entities.
So originally I had said,
just use a generated value of auto,
and that's fine,
because we were only doing gets
with of our credit operations.
So the sequence in our database didn't really matter,
and Auto worked fine.
But since we are adding,
we need to have some way to generate the ID.
And we're going to use identity
because that works with H2.
If this was an Oracle database,
we would have to use a sequence.
And then we would have to point
to the name of that sequence.
So that value tends to be database specific.
And I'm hoping that this didn't catch you up too much
because simply looking at some dark on the error message
that popped out,
saying that there was not a sequence strategy for that,
should have pointed you to identity.
But regardless, that is the change that I've made to guests.
So if I run this service, as it's written now,
once this runs,
we're going to jump into a terminal,
and we're going to execute a few curl commands.
Then, normally I use a different tool.
I use a tool called HTTPie,
which I find significantly better.
But for this purposes,
because almost everybody has curl on their machine,
it's easier to just show it with curl.
So we will do a curl on reservations,
just like we got before.
We will do a curl on guests.
Get a nice body of guests out.
Now let's go ahead and add a guest here
so that we can show what that will look like.
So let's do a curl -x.
It's going to be a POST at http://localhost:
8080/api/guests.
We were passing the content header.
So Content-Type: application/json.
And then we're going to do a -d.
So we've got some data.
And now we will structure some JSON.
So curl brace, quote, lastName:.
We will call the Zenith because it starts with Z.
So to show up at the bottom of our list.
And then we're only going to add the first name
because we don't need the whole element.
This gentleman's name will be Adam.
We will end with the curly brace and a single tick.
And now we've added that.
So let me clear this real quick
and go back to the API guests.
And you'll see that the last element,
guest 201 in this case,
has a first name of Adam, a last name of Zenith.
The rest of its(indistinct) and populated.
So that definitely worked to do the add.
And the last one that I want to do,
is I want to take a look at our rooms
and we get all of our rooms back.
The one thing I didn't tell you that is important to know,
because this is an embedded database,
if we restart our application
after adding Mr. Adam Zenith to our database,
Adam Zenith won't show up anymore
because he's not in our data file.
It's actually something we added at runtime.
Again, this you back
to some of the power of embedded databases,
'cause we can now use them for tests scenarios,
as long as everything is compatible with our database,
we can test using it,
actually execute queries against the database
and not worry about resetting the state of the database
between application runs.
So that's all there is for this challenge.
I hope that it stretched you just a little bit
and made you think about the entire stack
that we've been playing with,
looking at some IOC,
looking at some actual data queries
so that you can get a feel
for what Spring is top to bottom
through this simple challenge.